Parkinson's isa disease of the central nervous system. It is a progressive disorder,
meaning it gets worse over time. The disease affects a small area of cells in the
middle of the brain. This area is called the substantia nigra. The cells slowly lose
their ability to produce a chemical called dopamine.
The decrease in the amount of dopamine
Parkinson's disease. These include shaking of the hands, arms and legs. They also
include difficulty moving or keeping balanced while walking or standing. Also,
there
can result in one or more general signs of
may be emotional changes, like feeling depressed or worried. The symptoms
of Parkinson's differ from person to person. They also differ in their intensity
The disease is named after James Parkinson. He was a British doctor who first
described this condition in eighteen seventeen.
During the nineteen sixties, researchers discovered changes in the brains of people
with the disease. These discoveries led to medicines to treat the effects of the
disease. There is no cure for Parkinson's and no way to prevent it. And doctors still
are not sure about the cause
America's National Institutes of Health says at least five hundred thousand people
in the United States are believed to have Parkinson's disease. About fifty thousand
new cases are reported each year. That number is expected to grow as the
of the
average
population increases.
age
Parkinson's
appears most often in people over the age of fifty. Some researchers
believe that almost everyone would develop Parkinson's eventually if they lived
long enough.
Most patients have what is called idiopathic Parkinson's disease. Idiopathic means
the cause is unknown. People who develop the disease often want to link it to
something they can identify. This might be a medical operation or extreme
emotional tension.
doctors reject this idea of a direct link to Parkinson's. They point to
Yet
many
people who have similar experiences and do not develop the disease
There are several theories about the cause of Parkinson's, but none has ever been
confirmed. Studies have shown a link between the disease and some chemical
products. Two years ago, an American study found a link between Parkinson's and
pesticides, like those used for killing insects. The study compared three hundred
nineteen Parkinson's patients to more than two hundred family members.

