SYLLABUS
California State Polytechnic University, Pomona
College of Education and Integrative Studies
Liberal Studies 4601S: Interdisciplinary Perspectives of Public Education
Fall 2018: Mon/Wed
Dr. Estela G, Ballon
Professor Estela G, Ballón; Office 94-210; Phone 909 869 6768 or ext 6768
Email: egballon@cpp.edu In Office: Monday 1-2pm, Wednesday 1:00 3:00 pm and Thursday
11:30-12:30pm or online or phone by appointment
Catalog Description: Using an interdisciplinary approach, this course explores a civic evaluation
of public education to determine its effectiveness to improve or influence society. Students will
discuss and deliberate over major issues in public education using knowledge in the humanities
and social sciences, and natural science when appropriate. Students will be expected to draw
from their course work from other major core courses and GE courses to develop a complex
understanding of the relationship between schools and society through interdisciplinary thinking.
Service-learning at an alternative public school or other site will connect to academic content.
Objectives: In this course, students will develop or exercise the following skills and/or behaviors
using an interdisciplinary approach:
1. synthesize recurring themes, concepts and theories in humanities and social sciences, and
natural science when appropriate, to...
a. inquire about the role of education (formal and informal) in society and globally
b. analyze and articulate current political, social, economic issues (and their
corresponding policies and ideologies) in public schools to determine their ability to
serve a socially diverse population equitably
2. argue for a social-justice orientation in civic participation in achieving equitable outcomes for
public education in a democratic society.
3. analyze the role of public education in contemporary societal issues (e.g., wealth inequality,
public violence, sustainability) and articulate an interdisciplinary solution or action.
4. evaluate their perceptions of and experience in public education using disciplinary and
interdisciplinary on and experiential knowledge (service- learning) of public education.
5. understand the social position and context of others unlike them, such as at-risk youth, in an
educational or community setting through engaging in a service-learning project.
6. construct an interdisciplinary argument to establish short- and/or long-term personal and/or
professional goals for civic engagement.

