The Modern World (in 28 Lessons)
T/TH, 10-11:15 AM
Office Hours: 12:30-2:30 in Bldg. 94, 350
Dr. Mik Larsen
Bldg. 9, 403
mlarsen@cpp.edu
An astonishing gulf separates us at the edge of modernity from our predecessors in
civilization five centuries ago. Many of the aspects of the modern world which we take
for granted -including ideas such as free labor, self-determination in politics,
representative government, equality of birth, and the increasingly interconnected globe -
would have been nearly unthinkable anywhere in the world in 1500. These changes were
not merely at the technological level, but also at the philosophical, as new ideas sparked
waves of revolution which unmade the old world and remade it in vastly different
configurations, sometimes as brief explosions of violence, sometimes in enduring forms.
This class aims to explore the trajectory of the changes in our world from 1500 to now,
focusing on movements and events which reverberated across geopolitics. Along the way,
we will encounter literary works from across continents, learn about ideas continue to
subtly shape the way we think today, and find out how the rural and agricultural world of
yesterday became the industrial, technological, and diversified world of today
READINGS
Voltaire. Candide. Translated by Daniel Gordon.
August Strindberg. Miss Julie and Other Plays. Translated by Michael Robinson
Yasunari Kawabata. The Master of Go. Translated by Edward G. Seidensticker.
For course books the exact translation/translator is required. I have attempted to assign
books which are both affordable and easily procured. On Thursdays, when a book is
assigned for reading, it is mandatory to bring that book to class. Failure to do so will
result in a loss of credit for that day.
On many occasions the daily reading will be an online source, and those are also
mandatory to have for class discussion. You are expected to bring the text to class, either
as a printed copy or on a laptop or book-sized digital device/e-reader. Reading off your
telephone is not ideal. Use of your telephone for other activities than reading assigned
texts is not allowed in class.
b

