Grade Portfolio
The final total grade to appear on the grade report consists of the following components:
Class Attendan ce & Engagement: 10 % ( Passive presence in class is NOT engagement. A total of 4
absences automatically incurs an "F" grade despite the completion of course assignments unless
necessitated by personal emergency beyond one's own control -- documented proof required.).
Team-Led Workshop: 5% (Collaboratively designed, on an original topic pertaining to course
subjects.). This learning-centered project lets students play the role of a teacher to enhance their
career competitiveness. Consultation with the professor required in advance. Nota bene: All external
sources quoted directly and/or indirectly or otherwise utilized in the workshop must be fully cited.
Critical Reading Journal x 4: 5% each ( 20% in total ) ( > 2 pages each, excluding reference page
double-space, Times New Roman # 12). Each journal to focus on a weekly course topic.
Midterm Project (3 options): 20 % ( Consultation with the professor required in advance.):
Opt. 1. Self-created children's picture book: > 8 pages plus an outline. Duplication or adaptation
of published picture books NOT permitted.
Opt. 2. Self-created children's story: >8 pages plus an outline. Duplication or adaptation of
published stories NOT permitted.
Opt. 3. Research paper: > 8 pages plus an outline. Citation of at least 3 different reference works
required.
Final Projects (2 items; 45% in total):
1: Research paper (>8 pages plus an outline): 35 % ( Citation of at least 3 different reference works
required. Consultation with the professor required in advance.).
Nota bene: A self-created children's picture book (> 8 pages plus an outline) or a self-created
children's story (> 8 pages plus an outline) is required if one's option for the midterm project is a
research paper.
2: Self-designed syllabus plus self-critique of a course on Children's Literature: 10%. This
learning-centered project lets students play the role of a teacher to enhance their career
competitiveness.
The above course projects measure a) our level of engagement in class; b) our level of familiarity and
comprehension of the texts, topics, the instructor's lectures, and class discussions; and c) our abilities
to develop critical thinking toward oral and verbal articulation. Throughout this course the
instructor's guidance is customized, hands-on, and continuous. The instructor works closely with
the academic support services on campus to provide special accommodations to those who are
physically or mentally challenged in an effort to meet their individualized needs.
Students should refer to the MLA Style Manual and Guide to Scholarly Publishing (or comparable
scholarly reference works for academic writing). They must adhere to the University policy
concerning writing assignments and be fully aware of the ethical and legal consequences of "cheating.
plagiarism, or other forms of academic dishonesty that are intended to gain unfair academic
advantage" ("Student Conduct Code," http://www.cpp.edu/-studentconduct/student-conduct-
code.shtml).
2

