ENG 3800-01 (Class # 74650)
FALL '18
Children's Literature)
Instructor:
Dr. Daan Pan, Academic Advisor
13:00-14:15 Mon.-Wed. a B1dg. 5-136
Mon.: 15:45-16:30 online; 16:30-17:30: 24-212
Wed.: 10:00-10:30 online; 10:30-11:30: 24-212
dpan@cpp.edu (Available 7 days/wk)
Time &Place:
Office Hours:
Objectives
This course studies various traditions of children's literature from cross-cultural and interdisciplinary
perspectives. Treating children's literature as manifestations of cultural values and encounters, students
empower themselves through a critical reading of representative texts concerning children's learning
interests, needs, modalities, and experiences. This course engages children's literature not merely as a
belletristic subject, but as a key to understanding the sociocultural history and reality of various countries
Students explore the "secret garden" of children's literature, experiencing its pleasures vicariously and
investigating the multilevel implications of the pleasures from the dual perspective of adult-child. Students
holistic knowledge and understanding thus gained enhances their career versatility and sharpens their
competitive edge in career pursuits
Upon a success ful completion of this course, students will be able to
define the role of children's literature in a child's life and the implications of individual texts for a child's
development
understand the theory and practice of children's literature in different social, cultural and ethnic contexts
identify the uniqueness as well as complementarity of different traditions of children's literature and their
underlying cultural values
assess the influence of children's literature as the expression of cultural or cross-cultural experiences in a
global context;
foster a global vision of children's literature that transcends cultural and disciplinary borders
develop pedagogical and curricular strategies for teaching literature to children of different age groups and
ethnic backgrounds.
Pedagogy
Empowering ourselves through the engagement in critical thinking in a learning-centered environment.
Promoting a heuristic mode oflearning through intercultural and interdisciplinary "networking."
Fostering a global vision of literature across cultures through a comparative perspective, and honing
research skills across disciplines through a hands-on approach.
Optimizing the dissemination and assimilation of knowledge through open-minded and mind-opening
class interactions
Encouraging diversity and originality in textual analysis and critique with an emphasis on problem-based
collaborative learning
Enhancing effective learning beyond the classroom with the help of multimedia and digital learning tools
1

