Weekly Schedule
WK
Topics
Texts
Children's Literature: A Seeret Garden of Pleasures: Pleasures and Textual Situations
Reading Children's Literature, Raising Bookworms, Fairy Tales
Sept. (Campus Holiday), 5
Pleasures in Perspective
Reading Children's Literature, Fairy Tales, The Wonderful Wizard of Oz
WK 2
Торіс:
Texts
Sept. 18 Z4:26 Reading Journal # 1 Due Sept. 24 (hard copy to submit in class)
Reading Pleasures into / out of Children's Literature
Reading Children's Literature, The Wonderful Wizard of Oz, Winnie-the-Pooh Where the Wild Things Are
Oct: 3
The Pleasures of Learning- I: Pleasure As Learning
Reading Children's Literature, Exploring Mathematics Through Literature, The Higher Power of Lucky
Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone
WKs 3-5
Тopic:
Texts
WK 6
Тopic:
Texts
WK 7
Oct. 8; 10
The Pleasures of Learning - II: Learning As Pleasure
Reading Children's Literature, Children's Picturebooks; Winnie-the-Pooh
Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone
Торіc:
Texts
WK 8
Oct. 15; 17 Midterm: Picture Book/Children's Story/Research Paper Due Oct 15 (hard copy to submiit in class)
Reading Journal # 2 Due: Oct 17 (hard copy to submit in class)
Topic:
Texts:
The Pleasures of Learning- III: Learning with Pleasure
Reading Children's Literature, Children's Picturebooks, Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's StoneE
Winnie-the-Pooh
WKs 9-10 Oct. 22; 24; 29;31
Тоpic:
Texts
Children's Literature and the Ethics of Pleasure
Reading Children's Literature, Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone The Wonderful Wizard of O
A Single Shard, Morris Micklewhite and the Tangerine Dress Where the Wild Things Are
WKs 11-12 Nov. 5; 7;2 (Campus Holiday); 14
Topic:
Texts
Reading Journal #3 Due: Nov. 14 (hard copy in class)
Children's Literature and Culture/as Culture
Reading Children's Literature, A Single Shard Morris Micklewhite and the Tangerine Dress Wixie-she-Pook
The Higher Power of Lucky; The Blue Lotus
WK 13
Nov. 19; 21
Children's Literature in the Global Marketplace and Digital Age
Reading Children's Literature, Children's Picturebooks, Exploring Mathematics Through Liserature
Fairy Tales The Wonderful Wizard of Oz, Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone, Winnie-the-Pook:The Blue Loaus
Topic:
Texts:
Nov. 26; 28
Rereading Children's Literature; Re-experiencing Its Pleasures: Final Review & Brainstorm
Reading Children's Literature, Children's Picturebooks: Exploring Mathematics Through Literature
Where the Wild Things Are; The Higher Power of Lucky, Morris Micklewhite and the Tangerine Dress
A Single Shard
WK 14
Topic:
Texts:
Dec. 3; 5 Reading Journal #4 Due: Dec. 5 (hard copy to submit in class)
Rereading Children's Literature; Re-experiencing Its Pleasures: Final Review & Brainstorm
Reading Children's Literature, Children's Picturebooks; Exploring Mathematics Through Liserature
Where the Wild Things Are, The Higher Power of Lucky, Morris Micklewhite and the Tangerine Dress
A Single Shard, The Blue Lotus
WK 15
Topic:
Texts:
WK 16
Finals (No class to be held)
#1 Research Paper (hard copy to submit)
# 2 Self-Designed Syllabus & Self-Critique (hard copy to submit).
Two Final Projects Due:
Due: 12:00 Noon, Monday, December 10 @ Professor's Office (Bldg. 24-212). No extension permitted.

