Primary Texts & Critical References
.Fairy Tales (Andersen. Trans. Nunnally. RQ)
And Tango Makes Three (Richardson, Parnell, & Cole. RCMD)
A Single Shard (Park. RQ)
. Children's Picturebooks: The Art of Visual Storytelling (Salisbury &Styles. RQ)
Critical Multicultural Analysis of Children's Literature (Botelho & Rudman. RCMD)
Exploring Mathematics Through Literature: Articles and Lessons for Prekindergarten Through Grade 8
(Thiessen. RQ)
Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone (Rowling. RQ)
Morris Micklewhite and the Tangerine Dress (Baldacchino. RQ)
Raising Bookworms: Getting Kids Reading for Pleasure and Empowerment (Hamilton. RCMD)
Reading Children 's Literature: A Critical Introduction (Hintz &Tribunella. RQ)
The Blue Lotus (Hergé. RQ)
The Higher Power of Lucky (Patron RQ)
The Wonderful Wizard of Oz (Baum. RQ)
Where the Wild Things Are (Sendak. RQ)
Winnie-the-Pooh (Milne. RQ)
Supplementary readings will also be assigned per course needs.
Requirements
To ensure successful class engagement, students are required to
maintain regular, punctual attendance (Attendance of each class is documented.), and
observe classroom civilities
fulfill reading &writing assignments on schedule, and bring reading materials to class
be fully prepared for, and actively participate in, class discussions and team work
maintain regular contact with the instructor to stay informed of class standing
Classroom Civilities
Please observe classroom civilities to ensure active engagement and effective learning in an interference-
free, learning-centered environment:
Bring course materials (syllabus, textbooks, reference works...) to class
Attend all classes punctually throughout the semester.
Do not leave the classroom without compelling excuses before a class officially ends.
Do not leave and re-enter the classroom in the middle of a class without compelling excuses.
Do not take nap in class.
Do not engage in private conversations unrelated to class subjects during the instructor's lectures or
class discussions
Do not exhibit disruptive or distractive behaviors (such as using cell phone or laptop for purposes
unrelated to class) in class.
Do not make offensive remarks (including discriminatory, derogatory or obscene remarks) in class
Do not do reading or writing assignments from other classes.
.
I value your commitment to this class. I also expect you to value mine. Thank you for your cooperation!
3

