Email. All emails that Prof Ballon sends are to Cal Poly Pomona student email accounts. Be
sure to check your account regularly. Emails sent by you MUST be sent from your official Cal
Poly Pomona email account. I will not respond to emails not sent from CPP email accounts. In
your email:
Send from your Cal Poly email account;
In the subject line, state the course and you are in (LS 459) and very brief
rationale for email;
State your message clearly;
Sign your full first and last name at the end of your message (recognized on Cal
Poly Pomona paperwork);
I will respond to emails within 72 hours Monday through Friday
Absences. Class participation is essential and, therefore, regular attendance is necessary. For
regularly scheduled classroom meetings, students with more than two (2) absences may be
dropped or failed at the discretion of the professor. There is no need to email Prof. Ballon if you
will be absent.
FALL 2018 CALENDAR
Week 1: Introduction/What is Critical Social Justice
August 27 Introduction to course
August 29 BB- Blackboard (BB)-Sensoy and DiAngelo, How to Engage Constructively in
Courses that Take a Critical Social Justice Approach
Week 2: History and Goals of Public Schools
September 3 Holiday
September 5 BB-Sensoy and DiAngelo, Critical Thinking and Critical Theory; BB-Spring,
History and Goals of Public Schooling
Week 3: Service Leaning Orientation
September 10 Mandatory Service Learning Orientation-Reading and activities on Blackboard
September 12 Mandatory Service Learning Orientation-Readings and activities on
Blackboard
Week 4: Philosophies of Education
September 17 BB-Noddings, Philosophy of Education Before the Twentieth Century
VSeptember 19 BB-Noddings, The Philosophical and Educational Thought of John Dewey; BB-
Dewey, My Pedagogical Creed
Reflection Journal for Service Learning Due Fridays at 11:59pm
Week 5: Philosophies of Education
September 24 Service Day
September 26 BB-Swartz, Social Reproduction; BB-Bowles a
Societies; BB-Freire, Pedagogy of the Oppressed
Reflection Journal for Service Learning Due Fridays at 11:59pm
Gintis, Schooling in Capitalist
Week 6 Rul

