thoughts and feelings about the service, and specifically, how any information from the class
relates to their service. A separate handout will be provided with details for the journal entries
Critical Educational Analysis (20)
The 4-5 page analysis will be your autobiography on your schooling experiences. The paper wil
be both personal and academic in that you will incorporate themes and concepts from the
readings to examine your own schooling experiences. While you could write hundreds of pages
chronicling your educational experiences, this will be more focused on what you identify as
formative educational experiences ("big impact"). Your memoir will situate your schooling
experiences into a context (historical or otherwise) and use any issues and concepts discussed in
the readings and class to analyze your experiences. Due as indicated below.
Service learning hours (30)
All students are expected to complete a total of 15 hours of service. Service learning will take
place either on campus, a local food pantry or at a local elementary school after school program
in Pomona. You will serve for 1-2 hour time blocks (2 maximum) over weeks 4-14 of the
semester. Students will fill out a service-learning plan that specifies learning objectives, release
and emergency contact information before beginning assignment. An in-class orientation and
debriefing are mandatory in Week 3 and Week 14.
If you are intending to pursue a teaching credential, you may serve at a school as part of your
early field experience necessary for admission.
Final Assignment (30)
Details forthcoming.
Plagiarism: Plagiarism is when you offer someone else's ideas as your own. The best way to
avoid plagiarism is to put things in your own words, cite and/or quote, citing page numbers.
Plagiarism will not be tolerated and will result in failure of the assignment or the entire course, at
my discretion. In addition, if caught plagiarizing, your name will also be submitted to the
Director of Judicial Affairs for investigation. See Cal Poly's Judicial Affairs Office policy:
http://dsa.csupomona.edu/judicialaffairs/academicintegrity.asp. For further information on
cheating and plagiarism, and how to appropriately cite sources go to:
http://owl.english.purdue.edu/owl/resource/589/01/
Technology and Classroom Courtesy. While we live in a society in which daily life is highly
integrated with technology, occasionally their use can be a distraction in class when used for
non-course related work. You are welcome to use your phone for access to readings or research
during class discussions. You may use your laptop/Ipad in class to take notes. However, you
should email me your notes from class when the class ends. All privileges to use electronic
devices in class are contingent upon proper class use and can be revoked.
Late Work. Late work only accepted in emergency circumstances with documentation. See
Prof. Ballon immediately to discuss the extenuating circumstances.

