EVALUATION
This course will offer two examinations: a midterm in Week 8, and a final at the end of
the course. These examinations will consist of short identifications based on key terms
and images, a short passage analysis essay, and a longer historical essay. The midterm
will be worth 20 percent, and the final 25 percent, of your total grade.
This class includes two short essays. The first will be a 2-3 page paper due during
Week 7 which is designed to acclimate you to the process of writing historically; it will
ask you to create a thesis and make an argument about a historical text (Candide). It will
be worth 10 percent of your grade.
There will be a 4-5 page paper due during Week 14. It will require you to apply
historical analysis to texts you have encountered (Miss Julie, The Master of Go) and
make comparative evaluations of them as historical documents. Precise topics will be
announced in Week 12. The essay will constitute 20 percent of your total grade.
Attendance and participation are expected and will form 15 percent of your grade
Persistent absences (5) will result in a failing grade for the course. Short weekly quizzes
based on the reading for each week, conducted on Thursdays at the start of class, will
form the remaining 10 percent of your grade.
LATE POLICY
Late assignments will not be accepted. Extensions and makeup materials will be assigned
only by prior arrangement or in the case of emergency, or with instructor approval
PLAGIARISM
Plagiarism is the presentation of another person's words or ideas as your own and will
not be tolerated. Assignments found to be plagiarized will receive a 0, and such cases will
be submitted for judicial review. If you are unclear as to what exactly constitutes
plagiarism, please refer to the University Guidelines on plagiarism available online or
contact me if you have a specific question
DISABILITY
If you have or suspect you may have a disability which will affect your performance in
this course, please contact the Office for Students with Disabilities; they can make
accommodations for you to fulfill course requirements according to your disability.
CLASS SCHEDULE
Week 0
8/23
Introduction to the Modern World
Week 1
8/28
The World in 1500
8/30
The Protestant Reformation
Reading: Martin Luther, the 95 Theses (Online)

