Sclentists have been attempting for years to learn who may get Alzheimer's disease. If the condit
could be identified before its worst signs appear, people might get at least temporary medical help
There is no cure for Alzheimer's, which steals people's ability to care for themselves. Bot treatmenr o
slow its progress.
The most widely held belief about the cause of Alzheimer's is that a protein, beta-amyloid, builds sp
patients' brains. Large amounts of this protein may destroy a person's ability to think.
Some scientists question whether beta-amyloid causes Alzheimer's disease. They think that the protein
build-up may result from it. But most researchers say thick tangles or plaques of the protein are
responsible for the condition. Plaques are unusual clusters, or groups, of proteins. The researchers say
beta-amyloid destroys communication links in the brain.
Among older people, Alzheimer's is the most common form of dementia, the loss of abilities needed for
normal life. Other mental conditions may seem like Alzheimer's. Those conditions need medical
treatment that is different from treatment for Alzheimer's. A correct diagnosis, or identification, is
important.
The best way to diagnose the disease has been a medical examination of the brain after a person dies.
Doctors say methods to test the living have presented problems, like high costs for widespread ase.
Public and medical demand for a better way has been strong. Scientists have been working to produce a
dependable test for the disease in the living.
The United States' Food and Drug Administration is considering one such method. The method
combines an examination by positron emission tomography with a drug that lights up beta-amyloid. The
PET device makes scans or images that doctors can read.
Studies have shown that the drug florbetapir can light up beta-amyloid and show it on the images.
Florbetapir is a radioactive coloring agent. It connects with plaques in the brain. This makes it possible
for doctors to see the plaques.
In January, an expert advisory panel of the FDA debated whether florbetapir was ready for marketing.
The group did
the judgment based on available information. And they asked for more information. They also set
conditions for accepting florbetapir.
not suggest that the FDA approve the drug at this time. Still, the experts said they made
One condition is for the manufacturer to show evidence that florbetapir correctly identifies plaques. The
other condition is that the manufacturer prepare a training program for experts in nuclear mediciine
The advisory panel said the doctors reading the test need additional education to correctly identify the
plaques.
The Food and Drug Administration will decide next month whether to accept the panel's suggestions.
The FDA normally follows the advice of its expert advisers, but not always.
If it is approved, florbetapir would be the first agent permitted to measure plaque deposits in living
patients. Still, the presence of plaques does not prove that a patient has Alzheimer's disease. Doctoirs say
some people with amyloid plaques in their brains do not have the condition.
An estimated thirty million people around the world have Alzheimer's disease. In the United States
alone, more than five million people suffer from this presently incurable brain disorder.
Alzheimer's affects memory and personality-- those qualities that make a person an individual. At first,
people with the condition forget simple things, like where they left the keys to their car. Bat as time
passes, they forget more and more. They may forget what a key is used for.
Patients forget the names of their husbands, wives or children. Then they forget who they are.

