The sixteen=year-eld son of actor dohn Travoita died suddenly daring a
family vacatlon early last year in the Bahamas, dett travolts regortedly
suffered a seizure before dying.
A seizure is a sudden astack that may atfeet a person's mind or body for a
short period, People whe suffer tro repeated seizures are said to have
epilepsy, Whether Jett Travelta had epilepsy is not elear, But just what
is epllepay and how is it treated?
Bpilepsy is a medical condition that produces seizures, A seizure happens
when a Budden inerease of electrical astivity interferes with normal
eperations in the brain,
Nerve eells use electrical particles to communicate with each other.
Millions of eleetrical particles pass between nerve cells in the brain.
When the brain has a sudden burst of electricity, the body experiences
physieal ehanges ealled epileptic seizures, Victims can shake
uneontrollably for brief periods, They also can temporarily 1ose the
ability to eommunicate or think elearly
New research is helping to explain how cells communicate to cause
eonditions like epilepsy, Researcher Doug Fields works at America's
National Institutes of Health, He showed that a chemical called ATP could
have links to brain disorders 1ike epilepsy and chronic pain.
Most seizures can last anywhere between thirty seconds and two minutes.
These seizures do not cause permanent damage. However, a seizure is
considered a medical emergency if it lasts more than five minutes. One in
ten adults will have a seizure during their life.
Different kinds of seizures result when different parts of the brain are
affected. If electrical activity increases in only one area of the brain,
the person will have what doctors call a partial seizure. Many times,
people may suffer a partial seizure and not know it. They might note
strange feelings in an arm or leg. They also might hear noises or look
straight ahead for a few minutes,
Sometimes the individual will have an uncontro11ed movement, like turning
the head to one side. Most partial seizures last less than ninety seconds.
So it is not always possible for others to recognize them as signs of a
disorder.
when people hear the word seizure, they often think of what doctors call a
grand mal seizure. A person experiencing this kind of seizure will fall to
the ground. His or her body will become firm and start to shake. After a
few minutes, the individual will stop moving, appear awake and know what
has happened. He or she may move slowly for about thirty minutes. Some
grand mal seizures start with partial seizures and become worse.
Experts have reported different reasons why an individual may suffer
epileptic seizures. For example, head injuries or a lack of oxygen at
birth may damage the electrical system in the brain. Other causes are
poisoning and high body temperatures.
Older adults may develop epilepsy because of an infection, stroke or
Alzheimer's disease. Yet experts say the cause of the disorder is unknown
in more than half of all cases.

