Asthma is a serious disorder that makes breathing difficult. The
World Health Organization says asthma affects about three
hundred million people worldwide. An estimated two hundred fifty
thousand people die from the disease every year. And more than
five hundred thousand others are treated in hospitals.
Asthma happens when tissue that lines the airways to the lungs
begins to expand or swell. This swelling makes the airways
smaller. The muscles in the airways tighten.
Cells in the airways begin to produce a lot of mucous. This
thick, sticky substance causes the airways to close even more.
This makes it difficult for air to flow in and out of the lungs.
This series of events is called an asthma attack. As asthma
sufferers struggle to get air into their lungs, they may begin
to cough a lot. They may also make a whistling or breathy sound
called wheezing.
Some asthma sufferers have tightness or pain in the chest. They
say it feels as if someone is sitting on them.
When asthma is most severe, the person may have extreme
difficulty breathing. The disease can severely limit a person's
activity, and even lead to death.
Doctors do not know what causes asthma. Researchers believe a
combination of environmental and genetic conditions may be
responsible.
Forty percent of children who have parents with asthma will
develop the disease. Seventy percent of people with asthma also
have allergies. Allergies are unusual reactions of the body's
immune system to otherwise harmless substances or conditions.
Doctors have identified many of the things that may trigger, or
start, an asthma attack. Triggers are things that cause the
asthma sufferer's airways to swell.
Different asthma patients usually have different triggers.
Allergens are one of the most common triggers. These impurities
in the air cause allergic reactions.
Some of the more common allergens include animal hair, dust,
mold and pollen.
Pollen is a fine dust that comes from grass, trees and flowers.
Mold is a kind of fungus. It can grow on the walls or floors of
homes. It is often in wet or damp areas like bathrooms, kitchens
and basements. The Environmental Protection Agency estimates
that twenty-one percent of asthma cases in the United States
have links to mold and dampness in homes.
